# Basic auth

The `basic auth` is the default authentication mechanism of the OM deployment

## 1.Delete the default admin account

You need to remove the default `admin:admin` account, or at least change the admin default password.

## 2. Custom the basic auth config

To change the basic auth config, you need to edit the 
- `openmetadata.yaml` file(bare-metal deployment)
- `docker-compose.yaml` for(docker compose)

### 2.1 Authentication Configuration

The following configuration controls the auth mechanism for OpenMetadata. Update the mentioned fields as required.

```yaml
authenticationConfiguration:
  provider: ${AUTHENTICATION_PROVIDER:-basic}
  publicKeyUrls: ${AUTHENTICATION_PUBLIC_KEYS:-[https://datacatalog.casd.local/api/v1/system/config/jwks]} # Update with your Domain and Make sure this "/api/v1/system/config/jwks" is always configured to enable JWT tokens
  authority: ${AUTHENTICATION_AUTHORITY:-casd.local}
  enableSelfSignup : ${AUTHENTICATION_ENABLE_SELF_SIGNUP:-true}

```

For the Basic auth we need to set:

- **provider**: Specifies the auth type 
- **publicKeyUrls**: specifies the url of the public key. {http|https}://{your_domain}:{port}}/api/v1/system/config/jwks
- **authority**: {your_domain}
- **enableSelfSignup**: This flag indicates if users can come and signup by themselves on the OM

### 2.2 Authorizer Configuration

This configuration controls the authorizer for OpenMetadata:

```yaml
authorizerConfiguration:
  adminPrincipals: ${AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS:-[pengfei.liu,admin1,admin2]}
  allowedEmailRegistrationDomains: ${AUTHORIZER_ALLOWED_REGISTRATION_DOMAIN:-["all"]}
  principalDomain: ${AUTHORIZER_PRINCIPAL_DOMAIN:-"casd.eu"}

```
For the Basic auth we need to set:

- **adminPrincipals**: admin usernames to bootstrap the server with, comma-separated values.
- **allowedEmailRegistrationDomains**: This controls what all domain are allowed for email registration can be 
                          your {principalDomain} as well, for example gmail.com, outlook.comm etc.
- **principalDomain**: This controls what all domain are allowed for email registration, for example gmail.com, outlook.comm etc.

## 3. Configure SMTP server

For a better login experience, we can also set up the SMTP server to allow the users to Reset Password, Account 
Status Updates, etc. as well.

Below is a smtp server config example. You need to add them in to `custom-conf.env` file.

> The login and password is in .creds

```shell
OM_EMAIL_ENTITY="CASD"
OM_SUPPORT_URL="https://casd.eu"
AUTHORIZER_ENABLE_SMTP=true
OPENMETADATA_SERVER_URL="https://datacatalog.casd.local"
OPENMETADATA_SMTP_SENDER_MAIL="datascience@casd.local"
SMTP_SERVER_ENDPOINT="smtp-relay.brevo.com"
SMTP_SERVER_PORT="587"
SMTP_SERVER_USERNAME="chagneMe"
SMTP_SERVER_PWD="changeMe"
SMTP_SERVER_STRATEGY="SMTP_TLS"
```

For the `SMTP_SERVER_STRATEGY`, in general case it depends on the server port:
- SMTP: If SMTP port is 25 use this
- SMTPS: If SMTP port is 465 use this
- SMTP_TLS: If SMTP port is 587 use this

## 4. Default admin user accounts

The username you added in **AUTHORIZER_ADMIN_PRINCIPALS** will be added as bootstrap admins on server startup.
If you have SMTP server enabled and correctly configured, Login Password for these are generated randomly and 
sent to the mail adminName@principalDomain.

If SMTP is not enabled, please use the below method to create admin users: [admin1:password1,admin2:password2,admin3:password3]
This allows to bootstrap the server with given password, later on can be changed by specific users by visiting profile page.