# OpenMetadata Python SDK

The Python SDK is part of the `openmetadata-ingestion base package`. You can install it from PyPI.

Make sure to use the same `openmetadata-ingestion` version as your server version. For example, if you have the 
OpenMetadata server at version 1.3.1, you will need to install:

pip install "openmetadata-ingestion~=1.3.1"

## Introducing the Python API

Let's suppose that we have our local OpenMetadata server running at http://localhost:8585. We can play with it 
with simple cURL or httpie commands, and if we just want to take a look at the Entity instances we have 
lying around, that might probably be enough.

However, let's imagine that we want to create or update an `ML Model Entity` with a PUT. To do so, we need
- a proper JSON, covering all the attributes and types required by the Entity definition.

### A sample of Entity json file 

Below is an example of the `ML Model` entity json file:

```json
{
    "name": "pengfei-model",
    "description": "sample ML Model",
    "algorithm": "regression",
    "mlFeatures": [
        {
            "name": "age",
            "dataType": "numerical",
            "featureSources": [
                {
                    "name": "age",
                    "dataType": "integer"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "name": "persona",
            "dataType": "categorical",
            "featureSources": [
                {
                    "name": "age",
                    "dataType": "integer"
                },
                {
                    "name": "education",
                    "dataType": "string"
                }
            ],
            "featureAlgorithm": "PCA"
        }
    ],
    "mlHyperParameters": [
        {
            "name": "regularisation",
            "value": "0.5"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Using Generated Sources

As OpenMetadata is a data-centric solution, we need to make sure we have the right ingredients at all times. That is 
why we have developed a high-level Python API, using pydantic models automatically generated from the JSON Schemas.

OBS: If you are using a published version of the Ingestion Framework, you are already good to go, as we package the code with the metadata.generated module. If you are developing a new feature, you can get more information here.

This API wrapper helps developers and consumers in:

Validating data during development and with specific error messages at runtime,
Receiving typed responses to ease further processing.
Thanks to the recursive model setting of pydantic the example above can be rewritten using only Python classes, and thus being able to get help from IDEs and the Python interpreter. We can rewrite the previous JSON as: